Welcome back.
So we know that this thing called the JavaScript engine takes our written javascript code and does some
magic to tell the computer to do what we want it to do.
So what's happening inside of this engine.
And here's the tricky part as we know this engine can be built by anybody.
Yes.
That means you can build your own JavaScript engine but it's a lot of work.
And at the end of the day it's just a program.
And the V8 engine which is the most popular most common and someone say the fastest JavaScript engine
that the Chrome browser and no J.S. uses which we'll talk about later on this engine is written in C++.
A low level programming language but let's see what's actually happening inside here inside this engine.
It looks something like this we give it a javascript file and first is does something called lexical
analysis which breaks the code into something called tokens to identify their meaning.
So that we know what the code is trying to do and these tokens are formed into what we call an HST that
is an abstract syntax tree.
So we pass the code that is we try and figure out how the text is divided up based on keyboards from
javascript and it gets formed into this tree like structure called abstract syntax tree.
And this is a fun little tool online that you can use to demo this if we go to a SD explorer dot net
I'll show you how this abstract syntax tree looks like and you have a bit of code here.
And as you can see you can look at it in Jason format or he can use it.
The tree and it breaks down the program into different things that are happening.
We have a variable declaration
a decorator.
And although this may look like gibberish right now to you this allows the engine to understand what's
going on in the program or at least break things down one by one
in once in this form it goes through something called an interpreter profiler compiler and we get some
sort of code which we're going to talk about later on in this whole engine is going to spit out some
code that are C.P. you on our computers is going to understand to give it instructions and you can think
of this whole process again which we're going to talk about in more detail coming up as something like
this.
We can create our own JavaScript engine by saying function and let's say J.S. engine function that takes
Simpson code and this code is going to return for us let's say code dot split and we'll use some regex
here just to split up our code
and now if I write some code here let's say J.S. engine and we give it our code which will be a string
that says variable a equals to five Look at that we've created a simple engine.
I know I know there's a lot more complexities to it than that but that's what it's doing.
We're giving it a piece of code which just gets string defined and then it tries and breaks things down
into different parts so that maybe in this function we can say if you see variable keyword that means
whatever comes after it is a variable that we're going to assign and so on and so forth but you might
see a problem here.